                                 Apache
                             Version 1.1 (and up)

What is it?
-----------

Apache is an HTTP server designed as a plug-in replacement for the NCSA
server version 1.3 (or 1.4). It fixes numerous bugs in the NCSA server and
includes many frequently requested new features, and has an API which
allows it to be extended to meet users' needs more easily.

Documentation
-------------

All the documentation is on-line on the WWW, via <URL:http://www.apache.org/>.

Installation
------------

Unless you grabbed a binary distribution of Apache, you must compile
it for your specific platform.  In order to compile it, you must set
compile-time options (in particular, system type) for your system by
editing a Configuration file, run a script which generates a Makefile
and a small piece of C code, and then compile it.

For instructions on compilation, see the file 'INSTALL' in the src/ directory.

After compilation, you will have a binary called "httpd" in the src/
directory.  If you received a binary distribution of apache, you
should have this file already.

The next step is to edit the configuration files for the server.  In
the subdirectory called "conf" you should find distribution versions
of the three configuration files: srm.conf-dist, access.conf-dist, and
httpd.conf-dist.  Copy them to srm.conf, access.conf, httpd.conf
respectively.

First edit httpd.conf.  This sets up general attributes about the
server - the port number, the user it runs as, etc.  Next edit the
srm.conf file - this sets up the root of the document tree, special
functions like server-parsed HTML or internal imagemap parsing, etc.
Finally, edit the access.conf file to at least set the base cases of
access. Documentation for all of these is located at
<URL:http://www.apache.org/docs/>.

Finally, make a call to httpd, with a -f to the full path to the
httpd.conf file.  I.e., the common case:

  /usr/local/etc/apache/src/httpd -f /usr/local/etc/apache/conf/httpd.conf

And voila!  The server should be running.

By default the srm.conf and access.conf files are located by name - to
specifically call them by other names, use the AccessConfig and
ResourceConfig directives in httpd.conf.

The Latest Version
------------------

Details of the latest version are in the apache project page (above).

NOTE: At the time of release of Apache 1.1, two modules had updated
versions which were not sufficiently tested for inclusion into the 1.1
distribution: mod_auth_msql and mod_cern_meta.  The newer versions are
available from http://www.apache.org/dist/contrib/modules/ - if you
plan on using this functionality we encourage you to give the newer
modules a test drive, and let us know of any problems.  In particular,
mod_cern_meta is now configurable per-directory, and the configuration
directives have changed.  We can not promise that the existing
configuration directives provided by the mod_cern_meta included in the
distribution will be supported in the future.

Licencing
---------

Please see the file called LICENSE.
